# Puzzle Explanations

Click the floor puzzle you wish to hear more about.

*   <details><summary>Floor 3 Puzzle</summary> We know from the skeleton that only one of the statements is true. The statements "The key is in chest 1" and "The key is not in chest 1" are contradictory. So one is true and one is false. And since we know that one of those contradicting statements is true (it doesn't matter which), "The key is not in chest 2" is false (there is only one true statement among the three!). Therefore the key is in chest 2.</details>
*   <details><summary>Floor 4 Puzzle</summary> We know from the skeleton that each of the demons is a knight or a knave (and we don't know which). The lower demon says "I am a knight. The key is in chest 1." This might be true, but it's also something a knave can say. So, on its own, this demon doesn't really tell us much. The other demon says "We are both knaves. The key is in chest 2." First, let's suppose that this demon is a knight. Then his statement "We are both knaves" must be true, as knights never lie. But then he's a knave! That's a contradiction, so we know he must be a knave, and that the statement "We are both knaves" is false. Therefore this demon is a knave and the lower demon is a knight. Therefore, the key is in chest 1.</details>
*   <details><summary>Floor 5 Puzzle</summary> Again the skeleton tells us that each of the demons is a knight or a knave (and we don't know which). The top demon says "I'm a knave and the skull isn't. The key is in the second chest." Suppose that this top demon is a knight. Then he is a knave, which is impossible! So he must be a knave and the statement "The skull isn't a knave" must be false too. So they are both knaves. Since the two demons advise us to open chests 2 and 3, we know that the key must be in chest 1.</details>
*   <details><summary>Floor 6 Puzzle</summary> The skeleton tells us that at least one of the demons in the room is telling the truth, and at least one is lying. Another way to put this is that not all of the statements are true, and not all of them are false. So any solution that gives us all false or all true statements must be wrong. Suppose it is in chest 1\. Then all 3 statements are true, so that can't be right. Now suppose it is chest 2\. Then all statement would be false, so that's also wrong. Therefore it must be in chest 3.</details>
*   <details><summary>Floor 7 Puzzle</summary> The skeleton tells us that one demon gives two true statements, one demon gives us two false statements, and another gives us a false and a true statement. So the right answer to this puzzle must respect that constraint. Suppose it's in chest 1\. Then the top demon tells two falsehoods, as does the bottom demon! That's two double false answers, so we know it can't be in chest 1\. Now suppose it's in chest 3\. The top demon tells two truths. The bottom left tells us a truth and a falsehood, as does the bottom right demon. So that can't be it, as none of them told us two falsehoods. Finally, suppose it's in chest 2\. The top demon gives us a truth and a falsehood, the bottom left demon gives two truths, and the bottom right demon tells us two falsehoods. Since that's the only solution that respects the constraints from the skeleton, we know it's in chest 2!</details>
*   <details><summary>Floor 8 Puzzle</summary> This puzzle is simpler than it might appear. The two lefthand demons are saying the same thing: if the poison is to the right of the wine, then it follows that the wine is to the left of the poison. So those statements are either both true or both false. Since only one statement among the three is false, the demon on the right is lying. So it's not in cup 2\. Also, the poison can't be in cup 1, because there's nothing to the left of cup 1\. Therefore it is in cup 3.</details>